---
id: why_dev
---

# Why do developers need CyberConnect?

- **Data Standard for a true Web3 experience:** Most of the heavy lifting for building a Web3 app, like hosting a backend, has already been handled - write transactional data on layer-one blockchains, read indexed data via data services like OpenSea API, TheGraph, and EtherScan, and, read and write metadata on IPFS and Arweave. However, there is no data standard or existing middleware to help streamline the process. Developers then are forced to choose to build a Web2 version of social graph internally with a relational database. This just creates new data silos where users end up with the same old experience - siloed and redundant social graphs across different platforms they traverse, breaking up holistic identities.

- **Blockchain agnostic:** Our protocol is designed to be open. Not tied to any single blockchain, the protocol is created for a multi-blockchain ecosystem. This again enables the portability and scalability of the Web3 social experience.

- **Composability and Fast Bootstrapping**: Every social app has to solve the cold start problem, for there’s no single-player mode for social. Every social app acquires users in mostly the same way, through campaigns and referrals, which achieve slow and redundant results. It’s like “rebuilding the wheels” every time you need a ride. Apps can tap into CyberConnect using two lines of code and get user liquidity and social network data from day one. Developers can then fast forward bootstrapping their own social layer, and instead focus on building with agility for quick iterations and delivering great experiences.

- **Better Contextual Meanings and Recommendations:** Connections are much more than name lists on address books. They could gain an extra multitude of meanings when put into context and given specific structures. We achieve this by graph indexing. And we further transform the indexed data to a graph structure where much better recommendations for content & social discovery can be made. And with indexes and subgraphs we also make social graphs more flexible to travel between use cases. We also open up the social data for all developers and democratize indexing to welcome more innovative ways of making sense of social connections. This, we believe, will unlock huge potentials in getting values from data and delivering better experiences unimaginable before.

- **Collective value creation:**  By working together with all partner dApps we are together facilitating the collective aggregation of social data and the forming of more holistic identities, creating a truly connected Web3. And by developing an open and democratized indexing system, with all fellow developers contributing to the diversified indexers, we create an extra huge amount of meaning and utility from the aggregated social data and facilitate a fundamental turn from an app-centric tribalist system to a truly user-centric network system of Web3.